Sources/Examples/Echo/README.md, before:

# Echo, a gRPC Sample App

This directory contains a simple echo server that demonstrates all four gRPC API
styles (Unary, Server Streaming, Client Streaming, and Bidirectional Streaming)
using the gRPC Swift.

There are three subdirectories:
* `Model` containing the service and model definitions and generated code,
* `Implementation` containing the server implementation of the generated model,
* `Runtime` containing a CLI for the server and client.

## Running

### Server

To start the server on a free port run:

```sh
swift run Echo server 0
```

To start the server with TLS enabled on port 1234:

```sh
swift run Echo server --tls 1234
```

### Client

To invoke the 'get' (unary) RPC with the message "Hello, World!" against a
server listening on port 5678 run:

```sh
swift run Echo 5678 get "Hello, World!"
```

To invoke the 'update' (bidirectional streaming) RPC against a server with TLS
enabled listening on port 1234 run:

```sh
swift run Echo --tls 1234 update "Hello from the client!"
```

The client may also be run with an `--intercept` flag, this will print
additional information about each RPC and is covered in more detail in the
interceptors tutorial (in the `docs` directory of this project):

```sh
swift run Echo --tls --intercept 1234 get "Hello from the interceptors!"
```

Commit message:

Use swift-argument-parser for examples etc (#1118)
Motivation:

We have a bunch of hand rolled argument parsing code for each example
and various tooling. We did this because we didn't want to burden users
of the 'GRPC' module with additional depdendencies.

Now that Swift 5.2 is our minimum supported version, we have target
based depdendency resolution. This means we can use depdendencies for
targets which aren't products of the package without burdening
dependents of the 'GRPC' module with unnecessary depdendencies.

Modifications:

- Use swift-argument-parser for all examples, performance and interop tests
- Update use of interop tests in CI

Result:

- Less hand rolled code
- Examples are easier to use: they have help messages and so on.

Sources/Examples/Echo/README.md, after:

# Echo, a gRPC Sample App

This directory contains a simple echo server that demonstrates all four gRPC API
styles (Unary, Server Streaming, Client Streaming, and Bidirectional Streaming)
using the gRPC Swift.

There are three subdirectories:
* `Model` containing the service and model definitions and generated code,
* `Implementation` containing the server implementation of the generated model,
* `Runtime` containing a CLI for the server and client.

### Server

To start the server run:

```sh
swift run Echo server
```

By default the server listens on port 1234. The port may also be specified by
passing the `--port` option. Other options may be found by running:

```sh
swift run Echo server --help
```

### Client

To invoke the 'get' (unary) RPC with the message "Hello, World!" against the
server:

```sh
swift run Echo client "Hello, World!"
```

Different RPC types can be called using the `--rpc` flag (which defaults to
'get'):
- 'get': a unary RPC; one request and one response
- 'collect': a client streaming RPC; multiple requests and one response
- 'expand': a server streaming RPC; one request and multiple responses
- 'update': a bidirectional streaming RPC; multiple requests and multiple
  responses

Additional options may be found by running:

```sh
swift run Echo client --help
```
