docs/apple-platforms.md, before:

# Apple Platforms

NIO offers extensions to provide first-class support for Apple platforms (iOS
12+, macOS 10.14+, tvOS 12+, watchOS 6+) via [NIO Transport Services][nio-ts].
NIO Transport Services uses [Network.framework][network-framework] and
`DispatchQueue`s to schedule tasks.

To use NIO Transport Services in gRPC Swift you need to provide a
`NIOTSEventLoopGroup` to the configuration of your server or client connection.
gRPC Swift provides a helper method to provide the correct `EventLoopGroup`
based on the network preference:

```swift
PlatformSupport.makeEventLoopGroup(loopCount:networkPreference:) -> EventLoopGroup
```

Here `networkPreference` defaults to `.best`, which chooses the
`.networkFramework` implementation if it is available (iOS 12+, macOS 10.14+,
tvOS 12+, watchOS 6+) and uses `.posix` otherwise.

Using the TLS provided by `Network.framework` via NIO Transport Services is not
currently supported. Instead, TLS is provided by `NIOSSL`.

[network-framework]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network
[nio-ts]: https://github.com/apple/swift-nio-transport-services

Commit message:

Add support for Network.framework TLS options (#1221)
Motivation:

gRPC Swift currently half supports Network.framework via
NIOTransportServices, that is, we make use of the network stack where
it's available but we always use NIOSSL for TLS. We should offer users a
way to use Network.framework's TLS stack.

Modifications:

- Add 'GRPCTLSConfiguration' which is a wrapper around configuration
  structures for both NIOSSL and Network.framework. This is for both
  client and server configuration.
- Add static factory methods making it easier for callers to construct
  the right configuration with the right defauls.
- Add static factory methods allowing the caller to construct a
  `GRPCTLSConfiguration` from the 'base' configuration (i.e. a
  `NIOSSL.TLSConfiguration` or `NWProtocolTLS.Options`)
- Add new methods to the client and server builders to make a builder
  backed by a given TLS backend. In addition the client has a helper for
  automatically choosing the right backend from the type of the provided
  event loop group.
- Add backend specific options to each builder.
- Deprecate the generic 'secure' builders for both the client and the
  server.

Result:

Users can configure their client/server to use the TLS implementation
provided by Network.framework where appropriate.

docs/apple-platforms.md, after:

# Apple Platforms

NIO offers extensions to provide first-class support for Apple platforms (iOS
12+, macOS 10.14+, tvOS 12+, watchOS 6+) via [NIO Transport Services][nio-ts].
NIO Transport Services uses [Network.framework][network-framework] and
`DispatchQueue`s to schedule tasks.

To use NIO Transport Services in gRPC Swift you need to provide a
`NIOTSEventLoopGroup` to the builder for your client or server.
gRPC Swift provides a helper method to provide the correct `EventLoopGroup`
based on the network preference:

```swift
PlatformSupport.makeEventLoopGroup(loopCount:networkPreference:) -> EventLoopGroup
```

Here `networkPreference` defaults to `.best`, which chooses the
`.networkFramework` implementation if it is available (iOS 12+, macOS 10.14+,
tvOS 12+, watchOS 6+) and uses `.posix` otherwise.

Note that the TLS implementation used by gRPC depends on the type of `EventLoopGroup`
provided to the client or server and that some combinations are not supported.
See the [TLS docs][docs-tls] for more.

[network-framework]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network
[nio-ts]: https://github.com/apple/swift-nio-transport-services
[docs-tls]: ./tls-start.md
